Add new tutorial: two-scale-heat-conduction (#343)
precice/tutorials: two-scale-heat-conduction/README.md

---
title: Two-scale heat conduction
permalink: tutorials-two-scale-heat-conduction.html
keywords: Macro-micro, Micro Manager, Nutils, Heat conduction
summary: We solve a two-scale heat conduction problem with a predefined micro structure of two materials. One macro simulation is coupled to several micro simulations using the Micro Manager.
---

{% note %}
Get the [case files of this tutorial](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/two-scale-heat-conduction). Read how in the [tutorials introduction](https://www.precice.org/tutorials.html).
{% endnote %}

## Setup

This tutorial solves a heat conduction problem on a 2D domain which has an underlying micro-structure. This micro-structure changes the constituent quantities necessary for solving the problem on the macro scale. This leads to a two-scale problem with one macro-scale simulation and several micro-scale simulations.

![Case setup of two-scale-heat-conduction case](images/macro-micro-schematic.png)

> At each Gauss point of the macro domain there exists a micro simulation. The macro problem is one participant, which is coupled to many micro simulations. Each micro simulation is not an individual coupling participant, instead we use a managing software which controls all the micro simulations and their coupling via preCICE. The case is chosen from the first example case in *Bastidas, Manuela & Bringedal, Carina & Pop, Iuliu Sorin (2021), A two-scale iterative scheme for a phase-field model for precipitation and dissolution in porous media. Applied Mathematics and Computation. 396. 125933. [10.1016/j.amc.2020.125933](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.amc.2020.125933)*.

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be one or multiple publications? Due to the style (commas and &), I assume three, but only one is listed.

Author: This is only one publication, I will make this more clear but making it a standalone paragraph.

## Available solvers and dependencies

* Both the macro and micro simulations are solved using the finite element library [Nutils](https://nutils.org/install.html) v7.

> * The macro simulation is written in Python, so it requires the Python bindings of preCICE [pyprecice](https://pypi.org/project/pyprecice/).

Reviewer: Better link to the documentation page, because this also describes how to install it (and what to do in edge cases):

```suggestion
* The macro simulation is written in Python, so it requires the [Python bindings of preCICE](https://precice.org/installation-bindings-python.html)
```

* The [Micro Manager](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-installation.html) controls all micro-simulations and facilitates coupling via preCICE.

## Running the simulation

The macro problem can be started using:

```bash
python macro-nutils/macro.py
```

> Check the Micro Manager [configuration](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-configuration.html) and [running](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-running.html) documentation to understand how to set it up and launch it. There is a Python script to directly run the Micro Manager, called [run-micro-problems.py](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/tree/master/two-scale-heat-conduction/run-micro-problems.py), which can be run as:

Reviewer: To avoid the dead link till `master` is updated, you can also vaguely mention "in the tutorial directory".

```bash

> python run-micro-problems.py

Reviewer: Without knowing much about the micro manager and the related concepts, the purpose of this script is not very clear and it is not immediately prominent that this is one of the participants. Maybe add a sentence explaining what it does.

```

The Micro Manager can also be run in parallel:

```bash
mpirun -n <num_procs> python run-micro-problems.py
```

> Even though the case setup and involved physics is simple, each micro simulation is an instance of Nutils, which usually has a moderately high computation time. If the Micro Manager is run on 2 processors, the case takes approximately 10 to 15 minutes to run. Running the Micro Manager in serial is not advisable, as the run time can be more than 1 hour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though the case setup and involved physics is simple, each micro simulation is an instance of Nutils, which usually has a moderately high computation time. If the Micro Manager is run on 2 processors, the case takes approximately 10 to 15 minutes to run. Running the Micro Manager in serial is not advisable, as the run time can be longer than an hour.
```

*Bastidas, Manuela & Bringedal, Carina & Pop, Iuliu Sorin (2021), A two-scale iterative scheme for a phase-field model for precipitation and dissolution in porous media. Applied Mathematics and Computation. 396. 125933. [10.1016/j.amc.2020.125933](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.amc.2020.125933)*.

## Available solvers and dependencies

* Both the macro and micro simulations are solved using the finite element library [Nutils](https://nutils.org/install.html) v7.
* The macro simulation is written in Python, so it requires the [Python bindings of preCICE](https://precice.org/installation-bindings-python.html)
* The [Micro Manager](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-installation.html) controls all micro-simulations and facilitates coupling via preCICE.

## Running the simulation

Run the macro problem:

```bash
cd macro-nutils
./run.sh
```

> Check the Micro Manager [configuration](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-configuration.html) and [running](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-running.html) documentation to understand how to set it up and launch it. There is a Python script `run-micro-problems.py` in the tutorial directory to directly run the Micro Manager. This script imports the Micro Manager, and calls its `initialize()` and `solve()` methods. The Micro Manager can be run via this script in serial or parallel. Run it in serial:

Reviewer: Probably some documentation step is missing here. Running `./run.sh -s`, I get:

```
~/repos/precice/tutorials/two-scale-heat-conduction/micro-nutils [macro-micro-ht]$ ./run.sh -s
Output interval of micro simulations not specified, if output is available then it will be called in every time window.
Micro manager will not output time required to solve each micro simulation in each time step.
(0) 11:15:25 [config::ParticipantConfiguration]:298 in xmlTagCallback: WARNING: You configured the received mesh "macro-mesh" to use the option access-direct="true", which is currently still experimental. Use with care.
(0) 11:15:25 [impl::SolverInterfaceImpl]:184 in configure: This is preCICE version 2.5.0
(0) 11:15:25 [impl::SolverInterfaceImpl]:185 in configure: Revision info: v2.5.0
(0) 11:15:25 [impl::SolverInterfaceImpl]:186 in configure: Build type: Debug
(0) 11:15:25 [impl::SolverInterfaceImpl]:204 in configure: Configuring preCICE with configuration "/home/gc/repos/precice/tutorials/two-scale-heat-conduction/micro-nutils/../precice-config.xml"
(0) 11:15:25 [impl::SolverInterfaceImpl]:205 in configure: I am participant "Micro-Manager"
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/gc/repos/precice/tutorials/two-scale-heat-conduction/micro-nutils/run-micro-problems.py", line 7, in <module>
    manager = MicroManager("micro-manager-config.json")
  File "/home/gc/.local/lib/python3.10/site-packages/micro_manager/micro_manager.py", line 86, in __init__
    self._micro_problem = getattr(__import__(micro_file_name, fromlist=["MicroSimulation"]), "MicroSimulation")
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'micro-nutils'
```

Author: I cannot reproduce this. Are you using the develop branch of the Micro Manager? I added a note in the README stating that currently one needs to use the develop branch of the Micro Manager.

```bash
cd micro-nutils

> ./run.sh -s

Reviewer: What is the `-s` setting for?
If it is for serial, then why is it not just the default?

I would try to keep as much as possible the `./run.sh` working without having to read any documentation.

Author: `-s` is indeed for serial. I do not want to have a serial run as the default, as it takes around an hour to run. By default I would like to have a parallel run with at least two processors. I am hesitant to have a default here because the user should be aware that this is not a small simulation case.

Reviewer: But then why not simply display a warning?
I feel that we established the `run.sh` as the one-shot standard script and then we are ignoring this system rather easily. We could look into how we can improve the system, but I think the default `./run.sh -> it runs` is a feature we should maintain and strive for.

Author: Alright, I agree that `./run.sh` is a norm which we should strive to preserve. I will make the serial run as default, and the parallel as an option.

```

Run it in parallel:

```bash
cd micro-nutils
./run.sh -p <num_procs>
```

Even though the case setup and involved physics is simple, each micro simulation is an instance of Nutils, which usually has a moderately high computation time. If the Micro Manager is run on 2 processors, the total runtime is approximately 10 to 15 minutes. Do not run the Micro Manager in serial, because the runtime can be several hours.

## Post-processing

> The participant `macro-nutils` outputs `macro-*.vtk` files which can be viewed in ParaView. The Micro Manager uses the [export functionality](https://precice.org/configuration-export.html#enabling-exporters) of preCICE to output micro simulation data and [adaptivity related data](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-configuration.html#adding-adaptivity-in-the-precice-xml-configuration) to VTU files which can be viewed in ParaView.

Reviewer: I opened the results in ParaView, but I am not sure what exactly I should see. Is `u` the solution for the temperature and should it look like this?

![Screenshot from 2023-08-07 18-14-31](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/assets/4943683/ae42836a-e365-4177-b164-a01ee4e41621)

Does this show something that tells me that the micro-manager worked?

![Screenshot from 2023-08-07 18-15-40](https://github.com/precice/tutorials/assets/4943683/4ba4ba53-5f3d-4c23-b8ec-a61730ce13b0)

Feel free to add some image to show how the results should look like. I think this will help a lot.

* The macro simulation is written in Python, so it requires the [Python bindings of preCICE](https://precice.org/installation-bindings-python.html)
* The [Micro Manager](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-installation.html) controls all micro-simulations and facilitates coupling via preCICE. Use the [develop](https://github.com/precice/micro-manager/tree/develop) branch of the Micro Manager.

## Running the simulation

Run the macro problem:

```bash
cd macro-nutils
./run.sh
```

Check the Micro Manager [configuration](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-configuration.html) and [running](https://precice.org/tooling-micro-manager-running.html) documentation to understand how to set it up and launch it. There is a Python script `run-micro-problems.py` in the tutorial directory to directly run the Micro Manager. This script imports the Micro Manager, and calls its `initialize()` and `solve()` methods. The Micro Manager can be run via this script in serial or parallel. Run it in serial:

```bash
cd micro-nutils
./run.sh -s
```

Run it in parallel:

```bash
cd micro-nutils
./run.sh -p <num_procs>
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `num_procs` needs to fit the decomposition specified in the `micro-manager-config.json` (default: two ranks).

```
